welcome back to the fuel show i'm dennis
pittsenbarger and once again we're in
the pizza what a welcome Rob order for
the show thanks for having me Dennis all
right well now we've spent a couple
times here at ipd we've met Richard the
owner we spent some time with Chris and
Sean the two kind of heads of their
departments within the I guess you could
call it the install part of the show but
there's a real inner workings to IBD and
one of the things that you guys do here
is develop your own parts and that's
kind of where you come in tell us a
little bit about what you do here well
I've been with ipd for about two and a
half years now and I do the design and
development of a love our new and
exclusive products for both the Volvo
and the supermodel lines okay now you
told us a little bit about your history
before working here at ipd and I think
that's very important because it lends
itself to how these products can be
applied to the real world well I had
really humble beginnings when I started
out started out as a service tech in an
independent shop move my way up through
the dealerships and st. master level
training there and was able to bring
that training when I came here to ipd
when they called me to help them design
develop and and do some research
regarding what parts we thought would
really do well in the Volvo and the
Subaru market now yeah and I think that
really lends itself to kind of a
conceptual side of a design studio or in
a self what's coming out of your mind
because to have an idea and then also
apply it to the real world has a lot to
do with how it actually works and I
think that kind of lends itself with all
the training that you had absolutely
you'll find that some of those lessons
learned in the shop with busted knuckles
and scraped up fingers really translates
over to when you develop those parts and
thinking about how the real world
applications are going to respond to
your design ideas going on to the next
part of what you do here it really comes
to the products and one of the things I
want to focus on a day is the skid
plates you have for all the different
types of vehicles that you have
available tell us how you come about
developing those skid plates for both
super is and basically just about any
product out there well the original skid
plate design we came with was when we
had some customers that had some oil pan
damage and on the Volvo's being a cast
aluminum pan it's an expensive part and
a fairly complex repair procedure so
there's some great cost involved so a
simple skid plate can be easy investment
to save your ride they skid plates that
we use we typically design off of the
factory mounting point
where the undercarriage of the vehicle
already has some pretty strong
provisions for us to bolt to so the
design aspect on at least the volvo side
has really become pretty easy for us to
some respect we haven't taken too many
shots on the chops there's a lot of
benefits we've found from the skid
plates we design in areas we never
expected to see it to some degree we
find that cooling through the engine
compartment is increased because we've
capped off the lower chassis so the
airflow can't just hit the engine and go
out the bottom has to travel all the way
through that engine we've done parts
from stem to stern on these vehicles
again from the skid plates to our
adjustable cam gears we've done some
shift knob development all kinds of
intake systems exhaust systems brackets
for our sway bars and mounting systems
like that now what would you say is
probably the most involved piece that
you get that you get into is it the
internal pieces like those motor bit
like an adjustable cam gear or is it
really the idea of coming up a something
that fits within the factory mounting
bolts like we talked about with the skid
plates what's more involved or what
might be more exciting to you well I
always have fun with the performance
side I'm pretty much a performance a
geek you know have been since I was big
enough to pick up the wrenches but i
find myself really trying to to get out
of what i desire for myself personally
and really focus on what does our
customers looking for what's going to
service their needs what are they going
to be happy with yeah and we talked
about that off the air you know we can
sit and I mean between the two of us we
can talk about fuel injection mapping
and half the people with tuned off the
show just like that I mean it is more of
that lifestyle thing now do you do some
of the design on the interior the
vehicles as well like some of the
internal pieces that you guys develop we
have done a little bit designed in-house
first selected pieces of the car each
piece is a little bit different some of
it will go outside and we'll get input
from other types of businesses that can
help give us feelings on design styling
colors textures things like that yeah
now you talk a little bit about 3d
mapping and 3d design as far as building
I guess what you would call a
preliminary piece or maybe a prototype
piece you guys are using some real
estate of the art technology tell us a
little bit about that well when we go
into production it's very expensive to
make just a single piece to test
manufacturers have to tool up set up
their machines build this one piece and
then tear it all down
to do another one so to make a single
unit can be very costly so lately in the
last probably say five years we found
that three-dimensional printing has come
to be very cost-effective and
three-dimensional printing for those
that may not be familiar with it lays
down a layer of plastic one by one and
builds up the piece until you have an
actual three-dimensional mocked-up piece
made of plastic that represents your
design then you can take that test it
for spatial fit make sure dimensioning
toddlers are corrected it will bolt up
and all those types of things and I
think that kinda goes back to what we
talked about about you know what is a
conceptual idea doesn't always fit when
you go to the car and you know the thing
that I kind of came up with in my mind
is when you see that I hate to be a
movie geek but if anybody seen face off
when they build those little fake ears
for those guys it's it's almost like
that if you see that that's about the
only visual I can think of where you see
the laser actually building it layer by
layer it's really interesting to look at
those pieces now getting into some of
the more advanced stuff is there a is
there a direction that you guys are
going towards is there a goal that
you're looking for are you you know are
you spending the wee hours of the
morning trying to find that next great
idea well we'll always looking for the
next hottest trend whereas the where's
the market going next what are our
customers looking for ultimately we
really want to just make our customers
happy with the products that we develop
and hopefully do really well in solving
their needs but the next trends that
we're looking for really do focus on
fuel economy moving into hybrids looking
at hydrogen as an alternative fuel
source all types of things like that
even working in with e85 as that's
becoming more prevalent the market yeah
and I think that's really a hot button
right now is where fuel both from a
design standpoint of the management
system but also just where are these
fuels going to come from who is going to
really break through we've had a lot of
talk about diesel hybrid you hear that a
lot in the marketplace it's just who's
gonna break through and I think it's
interesting you guys are already kind of
looking forward I think that's what
shows your company being a
forward-looking company as far as
knowing that the future is out there and
you can't just sit back and see if you
can make your Weber's run more
efficiently on your on your be 20 so I
really appreciate you coming by IM and
again it thanks for coming by and invest
in little time
once again that's in the pits with
dennis pittsenbarger and you're watching
the fuel show please make a day to join
us here at twelve-thirty on the CW every
single Sunday on next week's show two
more behind the wheels we're going to
take a look at one of those hardtop
convertibles this time the volvo c70 and
we'll be taking a look at the suburban
LTZ that's coming up on next week's fuel
and don't forget fuel is nitrous for
your mind
you